Add upgrading your install file (#2087)
knative/docs: docs/install/upgrade-installation.md

---
title: "Upgrading your installation"
weight: 21
type: "docs"
---

To upgrade your Knative components and plugins, run the `kubectl apply` command

> to install the subsequent release. We recommend upgrading by a single minor

Reviewer: add link

```suggestion
to install the subsequent release. We recommend upgrading by a single [minor](https://semver.org/)
```

Author: added

version number. For example, if you have v0.6.0 installed, you should upgrade to
v0.7.0 before attempting to upgrade to v0.8.0. To verify the version number you
currently have installed, see
[Checking your installation version](./check-install-version.md).

> If you installed Knative using the Operator plug-in, the upgrade process will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you installed Knative components using either the [eventing-operator](https://github.com/knative/eventing-operator) or [serving-operator](https://github.com/knative/serving-operator) plug-ins, the upgrade process will
```

Author: Fix applied

> differ. See []() to learn how to upgrade an install managed by the Operator.

Reviewer 2: @k4leung4 Are you able to help with content here at all?

- [Serving](https://github.com/knative/serving/releases)
- [Eventing](https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases)
- [Eventing-Contrib](https://github.com/knative/eventing-contrib/releases)

Release notes are published with each version on the "Releases" page of their
respective repositories in GitHub.

### View current pod status

Before upgrading, view the status of the pods for the namespaces you plan on
upgrading. This allows you to compare the before and after state of your
namespace. For example, if you are upgrading Knative Serving, Eventing, and the
monitoring plug-in, enter the following commands to see the current state of
each namespace:

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace knative-serving
```

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace knative-eventing
```

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace knative-monitoring
```

### Upgrading plug-ins

If you have a plug-in installed, make sure to upgrade it at the same time as
you upgrade your Knative components. For example, if you have the
monitoring plug-in installed, upgrade it alongside Knative Serving and Eventing.

## Performing the upgrade

To upgrade, apply the `.yaml` files for the new Knative version of your desired

> Knative components and features to your Kubernetes cluster, remembering to only

Reviewer: Nit:
I think this is too long and complicated. It says "new version" (which can be confused with the latest version) and similarly, it refers to "desired" components and features (which you also used earlier to describe the target version of the upgrade "desired versions of Knative"). I think if we cut those out, then we dont need the gerund either and can shorten it?

"To upgrade, apply the `.yaml` files for the subsequent minor versions of all your installed Knative components and features.

Author: fixed

about the pods for each namespace:

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace knative-serving
```

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace knative-eventing
```

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace knative-monitoring
```

These commands return something similar to:

```bash
NAME                                READY   STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
activator-79f674fb7b-dgvss          2/2     Running       0          43s
autoscaler-96dc49858-b24bm          2/2     Running       1          43s
autoscaler-hpa-d887d4895-njtrb      1/1     Running       0          43s
controller-6bcdd87fd6-zz9fx         1/1     Running       0          41s
networking-istio-7fcd97cbf7-z2xmr   1/1     Running       0          40s
webhook-747b799559-4sj6q            1/1     Running       0          41s
```

```bash
NAME                                READY   STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE

```

```bash
NAME                                READY   STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE

```

If the age of all your pods has been reset and all pods are up and running, the
upgrade was completed successfully. You might notice a status of "Terminating"
for the old pods as they are cleaned up. 

> If necessary, repeat the upgrade process until your reach your desired minor

Reviewer: Maybe just qualify this so its not a stand alone option?

"After you verify that all the pods are running for the newly installed components and plugins, you can repeat the upgrade process to continue incrementally upgrading to your desired Knative version."

NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
elasticsearch-logging-0               1/1     Running   0          117s
elasticsearch-logging-1               1/1     Running   0          83s
fluentd-ds-dqzr7                      1/1     Running   0          116s
fluentd-ds-dspjc                      1/1     Running   0          116s
fluentd-ds-x9xg7                      1/1     Running   0          116s
grafana-59568f8f48-bz2ll              1/1     Running   0          111s
kibana-logging-b5d75f556-pwzkg        1/1     Running   0          116s
kube-state-metrics-5cb5c6986b-qp6pw   1/1     Running   0          116s
node-exporter-bgtsb                   2/2     Running   0          112s
node-exporter-cqrqv                   2/2     Running   0          112s
node-exporter-xwv7f                   2/2     Running   0          112s
prometheus-system-0                   1/1     Running   0          110s
prometheus-system-1                   1/1     Running   0          110s
```

If the age of all your pods has been reset and all pods are up and running, the
upgrade was completed successfully. You might notice a status of "Terminating"

> for the old pods as they are cleaned up. 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
for the old pods as they are cleaned up.
```

If necessary, repeat the upgrade process until your reach your desired minor

> version number.

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Add trailing newline:
```suggestion
version number.

```

Author: Done!

---
title: "Upgrading your installation"
weight: 21
type: "docs"
---

> If you already have Knative installed, upgrade your installation by running the

Reviewer: I would remove the conditional since you can assume that something should be installed to be able to upgrade it and not say "for the new version" because the subsequent statement says not to simply jump to the latest. Also for clarity, I think we should identify what you can upgrade and specifically "components and plugins". 

Maybe something along the lines of:

"To upgrade your Knative components and plugins, you run the `kubectl apply` command to install the subsequent release...."

install command for the new version. We recommend upgrading by a single version

> number. For example, if you have v0.6.0 installed, you should upgrade to v0.7.0

Reviewer 2: Instead of "single version number" I would say "single _minor_ version". Multiple patch versions (i.e. v0.6.0 to v0.6.4) should be fine.

v{major}.{minor}.{patch} is common terminology.

> number. For example, if you have v0.6.0 installed, you should upgrade to v0.7.0

Reviewer: Thinking about this more, I think we also need to clarify that the "upgrade" install command should install the next release of both the component and their related plugins (ie. make sure that the upgraded Serving gets the same supported version of "monitoring" for example, etc.).

Author: done.

before attempting to upgrade to v0.8.0. To verify the version number you
currently have installed, see
[Checking your installation version](./check-install-version.md).

> ## Breaking changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Before you begin
```

Breaking changes between Knative versions are documented in the Knative release
notes. Before upgrading, review the release notes for the target version to
learn about any changes you might need to make to your Knative applications.

> The [Serving](https://github.com/knative/serving/releases) and

Reviewer: Maybe move the Serving/Eventing repo links down under this statement, into a list, and then also add links to the Eventing-contrib repo (and monitoring repo... i think thats happening soon too?)

Author: done

[Eventing](https://github.com/knative/eventing/releases) release notes are
published with each version on the "Releases" page of their respective
repositories in GitHub.

> ## How to upgrade

Reviewer 2: Just an FYI this document outlines where we are thinking of going with this in the future. 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HEH9b4XWqFXtitAeHvCzymEG8-dtKH5y/edit?ts=5e14b844

Author: ack!

> ## How to upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrading components and plugins
```

> To upgrade, apply the `.yaml` files for the new Knative version of your desired

Reviewer: Need to consistently state that we cant jump versions during upgrade

```suggestion
To upgrade, apply the `.yaml` files for the subsequent version of your installed
```

Reviewer: Looks like our reviews overlapped and to integrate feedback from @derg this should be qualified with "minor": 

.... the subsequent minor version of your installed...

> Knative components and features to your Kubernetes cluster. For example, for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knative components and features. For example, for a
```

> cluster running v0.10.0 of the Knative Serving component, the  following command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster running v0.10.0 of the Knative Serving component, your upgrade command
```

> upgrades the installation to v0.11.0:

Reviewer 2: This is the way to go if the customer originally installed Knative via the direct YAML. If they installed Knative through the Operator package the instructions will be different. We should call that out.

Author: I added a note on that to beginning. I need to look and see if there's a place we can point to on upgrading with the operator.

> upgrades the installation to v0.11.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
should first install the next available release, v0.11.0, before you attempt to upgrade to a later version:
```

```bash

> kubectl apply --filename https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/download/v0.11.0/serving.yaml

Reviewer 2: Since this is not Serving specific we should have an example for eventing as well

```

> 

Reviewer: For completeness (since we say yaml files plural), maybe we also provide an example where the user also upgrades a plugin along with the component?

For a full list of all Knative `.yaml` files, see

> [Customizing your installation](./Knative-custom-install.md).

Reviewer: i think we should add the anchor to the specific section in that file

## Verifying the upgrade

> To confirm that the upgrade took place, view the status of the pods for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm that your components and plugins are successfully upgraded, view the status of their pods in the
```

> relevant namespace. All pods will restart during the upgrade and their age will

Reviewer: Namespaces plural
```suggestion
relevant namespaces. All pods will restart during the upgrade and their age will
```

> reset to 0. If you upgraded Knative Serving, enter the following command to get

Reviewer: Maybe just "reset" because when they run the command to view the pods, they might never see a 0?

```suggestion
reset. If you upgraded Knative Serving, enter the following command to get
```

information about the pods for the `knative-serving` namespace:

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace knative-serving
```

This returns something similar to:

```bash
NAME                                READY   STATUS        RESTARTS   AGE
activator-79f674fb7b-dgvss          2/2     Running       0          43s
autoscaler-96dc49858-b24bm          2/2     Running       1          43s
autoscaler-hpa-d887d4895-njtrb      1/1     Running       0          43s
controller-6bcdd87fd6-zz9fx         1/1     Running       0          41s
networking-istio-7fcd97cbf7-z2xmr   1/1     Running       0          40s
webhook-747b799559-4sj6q            1/1     Running       0          41s
```

> 

Reviewer: similar to above, maybe include the corresponding "success results" for the combo "component + plugin" example scenario?

Author: in progress! (It's super funny, when I first wrote this, I included Knative Serving, Eventing, and monitoring, but then I thought that was too long for this example and I should just keep it to one thing, since the principles are the same for each. D'oh! now I have to go back and add them...)

> You may also notice a status of "Terminating" for the old pods as they are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might notice a status of "Terminating" for the old pods as they are
```

Reviewer: What would we need to show or say to clarify/ensure that the pods that one might see being terminated are indeed the "old pods"? Would it have the same name (..."you might notice that a pod with the same name is also being terminated...."). This might require feedback from multiple WG leads especially for the case when someone upgrades across several versions (ie. i dont its fair to make the user have to search the "release notes" to determine if the name of a  pod or namespace, etc has changed).

cleaned up. 

> If the age of all your pods has been reset and all pods are up and running, the

Reviewer: Do we need to first tell the user to obtain a list of all the pods? How will they know what pods were running and that a pod with a new age is not just a new pod? Also, (re: "all your pods") another point of concern are plugins that were not upgraded, since those ages will be older (ie. if its not clear to the user which of those pods should have a new age, they might struggle here if they see older pods for plugins).

Author: I added this in; need to re-run my upgrades to see what the outputs will be for the other commands, but I wanted to get these back to you and Dan.

> upgrade was completed successfully.

Reviewer 2: We should probably have a section on Serving + Eventing compatibility between versions. Something that allows us to answer: Should I upgrade Serving first or Eventing first? Can I upgrade eventing without upgrading serving?

Author: That would be useful. IS that info in a Google doc anywhere?

> upgrade was completed successfully.

Reviewer: At the end, we should state that after you have verified that your incremental upgrade was successful, that you can repeat the upgrade/"next-release-install" process again until you reach the desired version.

Author: done
